[New entry] python namedtuple (#4281)
Codecademy/docs: content/python/concepts/collections-module/terms/namedtuple/namedtuple.md

---
Title: 'namedtuple'
Description: 'A tuple subclass with named fields'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Data Science'
Tags:
  - 'Tuples'
  - 'Data Types'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

A **namedtuple** is a data type in the `collections` module. It is a [`tuple`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python/tuples) subclass that allows you to create immutable objects with named fields. This improves code readability by providing meaningful names for each element and making the code more explicit.

## Syntax

```pseudo
namedtuple(typename, field_names)
```

The field names are made by a list of strings such as ['a', 'b', 'c'].

> Field names can alternatively be a string of several elements separated by a comma or a space.

Reviewer: Update the description in the following format:

```
- `default_factory`: It gives the default value for the dictionary object.
- `default_factory`: It gives the default value for the dictionary object.
```

## Additional Methods

> There are 3 specific `namedtuple` methods in addition to the standard methods inherited from tuples.
> All methods begin with an underscore to avoid conflicts with field names.
> 
> -`._make(iterable)`: (Class method) Creates a new instance based on an existing sequence or iterable.
> 
> -`._asdict()`: Returns a [`dict`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python/dictionaries) with matching field names and values.
> 
> -`._replace(kwarg)`: Returns a new instance with fields replaced by the value provided as a keyword argument.
> 
> There are 2 specific attributes `._fields` and `_field_defaults` that will allow you respectively to list field names and to return a [`dict`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python/dictionaries) with field names related to their default values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are 3 specific `namedtuple` methods in addition to the standard methods inherited from tuples. All methods begin with an underscore to avoid conflicts with field names.

-`._make(iterable)`: (Class method) Creates a new instance based on an existing sequence or iterable.

-`._asdict()`: Returns a [`dict`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python/dictionaries) with matching field names and values.

-`._replace(kwarg)`: Returns a new instance with fields replaced by the value provided as a keyword argument.

There are 2 specific attributes `._fields` and `_field_defaults` that will allow you respectively to list field names and to return a [`dict`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python/dictionaries) with field names related to their default values.
```

> 

Reviewer: Could you add an Example section before the codebyte? You need to add the code and its output. Please take a look at the [style guide](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/style-guide.md) if you need it.

## Syntax

```pseudo
namedtuple(typename, field_names)
```

- `typename`:  The name of the new tuple subclass.
- `field_names`: It represents the names of the fields in the named tuple.

## Additional Methods

There are 3 specific `namedtuple` methods in addition to the standard methods inherited from tuples. All methods begin with an underscore to avoid conflicts with field names.

-`._make(iterable)`: (Class method) Creates a new instance based on an existing sequence or iterable.

-`._asdict()`: Returns a [`dict`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python/dictionaries) with matching field names and values.

-`._replace(kwarg)`: Returns a new instance with fields replaced by the value provided as a keyword argument.

There are 2 specific attributes `._fields` and `_field_defaults` that will allow you respectively to list field names and to return a [`dict`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python/dictionaries) with field names related to their default values.

## Example

> This define a `namedtuple` codecademyStudent with two fields (username and courses) to create two student instances. Two sentences will then be displayed about each student and their attributes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, a `namedtuple` `codecademyStudent` with two fields (`username` and `courses`) to create two student instances. Two sentences will then be displayed about each student and their attributes.
```

> In the following example, a `namedtuple` `codecademyStudent` with two fields (`username` and `courses`) to create two student instances. Two sentences will then be displayed about each student and their attributes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, a `namedtuple` `codecademyStudent` with two fields (`username` and `courses`) to create two student instances is created. Two sentences will then be displayed about each student and their attributes.
```

```py
from collections import namedtuple

codecademyStudent = namedtuple('codecademyStudent', ['username', 'courses'])

student1 = codecademyStudent(username='Foo', courses=['Python', 'Computer Science'])
student2 = codecademyStudent(username='Bar', courses=['Javascript', 'Web Development'])

print("Student 1:", "Username:", student1.username, "| Courses involvement:", student1.courses)
print("Student 2:", "Username:", student2.username, "| Courses involvement:", student2.courses)
```

> This example results in the following output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above example results in the following output:
```

---
Title: 'namedtuple'
Description: 'A tuple subclass with named fields'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Data Science'
Tags:
  - 'Tuples'
  - 'Data Types'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

A **namedtuple** is a data type in the `collections` module. It is a [`tuple`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python/tuples) subclass that allows you to create immutable objects with named fields. This improves code readability by providing meaningful names for each element and making the code more explicit.

## Syntax

```pseudo
namedtuple(typename, field_names)
```

> The following values can be applied to the field_names argument :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following values can be applied to the field_names argument :
```

> 
> The following values can be applied to the field_names argument :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
Title: 'namedtuple'
Description: 'A tuple subclass with named fields'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Data Science'
Tags:
  - 'Tuples'
  - 'Data Types'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

A **namedtuple** is a data type in the `collections` module. It is a [`tuple`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python/tuples) subclass that allows you to create immutable objects with named fields. This improves code readability by providing meaningful names for each element and making the code more explicit.

## Syntax

```pseudo
namedtuple(typename, field_names)
```

The following values can be applied to the field_names argument :

> - `['a', 'b', 'c']`: A list of strings
> - `'a, b, c'`: A string with elements separated by a comma
> - `'a b c'`: A string with elements separated by a space

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `typename`:  The name of the new tuple subclass.
- `'field_names`: It represents the names of the fields in the named tuple.
```
